hello and welcome to did you know gaming
extra today we'll be taking a look at
Nintendo's ever so beloved though
perhaps ever so overused character mario
nintendo style of mario has made plenty
of appearances over the years though it
can't be all too surprising to know that
sometimes his presence can be overlooked
this is often because the product in
question is either a regional exclusive
or the game is simply not geared towards
traditional fans of the mario franchise
or even gamers at all really we'll start
with the earliest game in this episode
being released back in 1986 I am a
teacher super mario sweater more of a
tool than a game super mario sweater was
released for the Famicom disk system and
let players input their clothings
measurement sizes and then design
sweaters the game was developed by
Nintendo but was published by Royal Kogi
Oh
a Japanese appliance company that
specialized in the manufacturing of
sewing machines the company realized
that they make a good profit if they
could program a sweater designing
application with the final product being
sold for two thousand nine hundred yen
roughly 25 US dollars the project was
also a way for royal to make more profit
through direct orders as designs could
be sent to the company so that the
player could actually wear their own
custom created sweaters some years later
in 2001 believe it or not another game
was made for this reason as well this
was mario family for the Game Boy Color
developed by Natsume and published by
Jaguar the game was compatible with the
Jaguar JM 100 or 200 sewing machine a
regime that could be directly linked to
the Game Boy Color the game had 32
patterns stored in its data
interestingly a canceled spin-off called
kirby family was also considered being
the same concept but with the kirby
series
another interesting accolade of mario
family is that it was the last mario
game to be released for the Game Boy
Color jumping back row and more towards
what can actually be called a video game
over the years mario has managed to wind
up in a varied array of scenarios with
one of the more popular side jobs for
the plumber being his racing career
however while many believe Mario's first
time behind the wheel was in 1992 Super
Mario Kart on the SNES it was actually
much
léo famicom grand prix f1 race released
in 1987 for the Famicom disk system make
it exclusive to the Japanese market the
way I have the option of racing a
Formula One car either alone on a track
or against other Mario look-alikes each
card a certain volume of fuel and health
which would deteriorate when driving
off-road or crashing into walls or other
cars of course the player can take a pit
stop in order to refill their tank and
make some repairs a pit stop that
happens to be filled with Mario
look-alikes though this will take up
some time in the race there was a sequel
released a year later called famicom
grand prix to 3d hot rally this game as
the fudge suggests is possible to play
in 3d as long as the player wears 3d
glasses mario luigi Xinbo ever remains
only on the box another obscure mario
game references this cover Super Mario
Brothers and Friends when I grow up this
1992 US exclusive digital coloring book
for the PC included multiple pictures of
Mario and the gang in different
real-world situations one of them was
the cover of famicom grand prix to 3d
hot rally
despite this game never being released
in the US Super Smash Brothers ultimate
actually has this artwork as an
unlockable spirit and Mario Odyssey has
a mechanic outfit and hat for Mario in
reference to artwork found in the game's
manual another game which would fly
under the radar came just a year later
also on the Famicom disk system chaotic
eater Mario Brothers or return of Mario
Brothers released in 1988 and was an
update to the existing Mario Brothers
game as well as being the last Mario
title published for the Famicom there
are only a few changes made to the
original game there are some new levels
the ability to change direction in
midair
retained high scores and the ability to
register the names age and gender of
players 1 & 2 a new mode was also
introduced called Nagatani own world
which would give the player the chance
to continue the game after losing all of
their lives but would ask them to win a
spin on a slot machine minigame to do so
this can only be performed once per game
and offers for two or just one
additional life after a game over
also in this mode the player can get
promotional codes after retaining scores
over a certain value
100,000 points a code is given which can
be mailed to Nintendo for a chance to
win a set of Mario playing cards after
200,000 points
participants were in for a chance to win
a copy of Super Mario Brothers 3 which
had released just one month prior
Takaya Taketa Mario Brothers win or lose
the entrance would receive a free Mario
keyring with the promotion running from
November 1988 to May 1989 an interesting
and somewhat unique addition to Kurt
Akita Mario Brothers was the inclusion
of advertising these ads would appear
during level transitions advertising
various Mario titles such as mihari Oh
brothers 3 but also strangely Japanese
food company Naga tanyon who sponsored
the games production there's a teleview
a Japanese exclusive add-on for the SNES
which we brought up multiple times
before on this channel also had several
Mario titles the system would connect to
the internet and could be used to
download unique games or games with
special conditions altered from standard
retail titles one of these games is
called in decay 30 same game though it
was also made available in cartridge
format for a limited run in 1995
developed by Hudson soft the game is
effectively just a rebranding on the
classic solitaire card game Monte Carlo
where by selecting two icons of the same
type next to each other will remove both
icons from the screen
considering the game's simplicity it
shouldn't be surprising that it was
distributed as a downloadable title via
the satellaview
this edition was broadcast every Monday
at 5:30 p.m. and as with many
satellaview games it was accompanied by
a radio show this particular show starts
a goomar Kazuko the voice of bomberman
the show aired from April 1985 for about
a year in a similar situation
warriors Woods had a curious Japanese
exclusive version while the game
receives a physical release a special
edition was made exclusively for
distribution through the satellaview
in 1997 Nintendo published warriors
woods buckle show version a game that
saw a decent share of contention the
title which plays exactly like warriors
words which released on both the NES and
SNES internationally
only on the Famicom in Japan simply
replaces various characters from the
game of the comedy duo bakkushan Hyundai
it was around this time that complaints
in Nintendo was failing to deliver
unique experiences with the satellaview
service were commonplace
and this mildly altered version of a
pre-existing title didn't help their
case the company distributed a second
version of wires words on the service
called warriors woods again making very
few changes from the International SNES
version though lacking a couple of game
modes and dialogue in the stories game
mode Berto was still removed and
replaced by a female so teleview avatar
the complains surrounding the remakes
and rebranding of the existing Nintendo
games wouldn't stop with warriors woods
though this next title would be unique
to their service and wouldn't be
available in any other form on the SNES
Excitebike boon-'boon mario battle
stadium as you can expect with its title
was an exciting remake or sequel if you
will featuring a lineup of Mario
characters the game was developed by
Nintendo and released in four different
episodes with episode 1 featuring Mario
Luigi and toad episode 2 adding warrior
episode 3 adding peach and episode 4
atom Yoshi though removing Luigi for
some reason non playable races would be
different colored koopa troopas what's
interesting about this title was its
exclusivity with the satellaview
the game would be a wholly new creation
for the 16-bit era and the only entry in
the Excitebike series for the SNES as it
would be three more years before excite
by sixth and fours release by exploring
the games data it's also possible to
find a bonus game hood which would
ultimately go completely unused the
title also featured voice acting with
one of charles martinez earliest
appearances as mario after Excitebike
mario would return to a job that he'd
taken part in before as a member of a
building wrecking crew the original
wrecking crew was released in 1985 for
the NES as a launch title but the game
received a 16-bit sequel for the super
famicom called wrecking
through 98 first as a downloadable title
of the Nintendo Power flashable
cartridge service in January of 1998
then as a standard cartridge released in
May later that year the game sees Mario
returned from a trip outside the
Mushroom Kingdom only to find that
Bowser has constructed new hideouts
across the kingdom as a result his new
buildings are blocking out the Sun
depriving the landscape of sunlight in a
bid to counter this Mario sets out to
demolish the new hideouts
with his trusty hammer along his journey
he encounters former adversaries from
the original wrecking crew including
rival Foreman spike the game featured a
full story mode versus mode and a
tournament mode its premise is simple
players break tiles to line up colors of
three or more whilst avoiding various
hazards such as enemies that travel down
the stage it isn't quite the same as the
original wrecking crew but for those
that wish to play that title it has been
bundled within the game as well this
game never had an international release
due to the year in which it was released
Nintendo's different international
divisions ended the publication of SNES
games in 1997 a year prior to wrecking
crew 98 release from the satellaview to
another peripheral that underperformed
the Nintendo e-reader was an attachment
for the Game Boy Advance which let users
swipe special cards through a scanner
that interpreted the code the add-on was
mostly used for small additions to games
like Super Mario advance for when new
levels could be added via the cards
Mario Party II was released in 2003 in
both Japan and North America and as a
board game bundled when not just a play
board but 64 cards for the e-reader
effectively this was a tabletop game
which used the GBA to further extend the
possible gameplay options off the board
each player is given five cards and on
their turn draws a card from a deck pile
the player can then play a card or
discard a card the overall goal is to
place the three superstar items
Mario's hat
and shoes into the players in play area
and then played the superstar card cards
give a variety of instructions with
eleven minigame cards which can be
played cards have an Associated coin
cost which means the player must have
the correct number of coins in play to
use them the game is quite simple but if
you'd like to see the game in action you
tubers fossil arcade of a playthrough
video in which they demonstrate the game
quite succinctly check the link in the
description below and from a physical
tabletop game to a virtual one yaku
mantillas was developed for nintendo and
their close partners intelligent systems
failed for their work on the likes of
warrior where Fire Emblem and Paper
Mario the game was released in spring
2005 exclusively in Japan and is loosely
speaking a sequel to the original
yakuman released on the Game Boy nearly
two decades earlier the game is simply
reaching mahjong game with Mario in his
French shoehorned in allowing for four
players to go up against one another
thanks to the D s is wireless
connectivity despite being a regional
exclusive the game proved to be popular
enough to earn re-release a year later
this time taking advantage of the DSS
Wi-Fi capabilities allowing players to
compete online
hey it's quarantine Greg here just
interrupting this video to tell you that
we're partnering with Bank One the
pancreatic cancer Canada Foundation
pancreatic cancer affects more people
than you might think from everyday
people to Jeopardy's Alex Trebek and
even the late Alan Rickman with an 8
percent survival rate pancreatic cancer
is considered a death sentence
in fact death row prisoners have a
better chance of surviving lethal
injection than this form of cancer
the survival rate hasn't changed in 40
years due to lack of funding and
research and we need your help to change
that if you have any extra cash please
consider donating to the link in the
description and help save lives with
pack 1 any dollar amount you can give
helps we should also know that we are
not being paid to share this message and
we ourselves have donated to this cause
we want to thank you guys for all of
your support and viewership particularly
difficult times like this and we just
thought you know we're try and spread a
little love
and we hope you enjoy the rest of the
video carry on not lockdown Greg and now
it's time for this episode's random
piece of trivia today we're going to be
talking about Avalanche Studios
action-adventure just cause if the
player travels to the west of the Morea
Dolorosa military camp in the jungle
they can find what appears to be a Mayan
temple this mysterious area is the only
place in the game that features hostile
civilians these civilians have their own
full set of unique voice lines for the
encounter bizarrely however there seems
to be no collision data for the main
structure itself did you also know that
sega once pitched a metroid game to
nintendo for the gamecube for more facts
check out our video org a few facts
that's it thanks for watching I hope you
enjoyed this video what are some more
obscure Mario games I'm sure there are
many more out there have a great time
around stay safe out there
stay safe people acting crazy